Add document for admission webhook (#943)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/concepts/admission-webhook.md

# Lokomotive admission webhooks

> As part of the cluster control-plane Lokomotive creates additional admission webhooks, which provides extra features to the cluster. This document describes what webhooks we install and what they do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of the cluster control plane Lokomotive creates additional admission webhooks, which add extra features to the cluster. This document describes the webhooks we install and what they do.
```

- I don't see a reason to hyphenate "control plane".
- "add" relates to "webhooks" which is plural so no "s" at the end.

> As part of the cluster control-plane Lokomotive creates additional admission webhooks, which provides extra security features to the cluster. This document describes what webhooks we install and what they do.

Reviewer 2: I wonder, can webhook provide non-security features?
```suggestion
As part of the cluster control-plane Lokomotive creates additional admission webhooks, which provides extra features to the cluster. This document describes what webhooks we install and what they do.
```

> ## Default ServiceAccount Mutating Webhook

Reviewer: Please capitalize the titles consistently.

> When you create a pod, if you do not specify a service account, it is automatically assigned the `default` service account in the same namespace. If you get the raw json or yaml for a pod you have created (for example, `kubectl get pods/<podname> -o yaml`), you can see the `spec.serviceAccountName` field has been automatically set. For more information see [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). 

Reviewer 2: Hmm, that seems like copying Kubernetes documentation, without explaining why we mention it or creating a context for the next paragraphs.

I think we should mention here, that by default, created pods can authenticate to Kubernetes API, which might be a potential security threat.

I wonder if we should mention here, that this is only a threat if there is an vulnerability in some of of the Kubernetes components or allows an attacker to obtain more information about the cluster (as I guess some metrics endpoints may only require authentication and not RBAC).

> When you create a pod, if you do not specify a service account, it is automatically assigned the `default` service account in the same namespace. If you get the raw json or yaml for a pod you have created (for example, `kubectl get pods/<podname> -o yaml`), you can see the `spec.serviceAccountName` field has been automatically set. For more information see [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). By default, created pods can authenticate to Kubernetes API, which might be a potential security threat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you create a pod, if you do not specify a service account, it is automatically assigned the `default` service account in the same namespace. If you get the raw JSON or YAML for a pod you have created (for example, `kubectl get pods/<podname> -o yaml`), you can see the `spec.serviceAccountName` field has been automatically set. For more information see [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). By default, created pods can authenticate to Kubernetes API, which might be a potential security threat.
```

> When you create a pod, if you do not specify a service account, it is automatically assigned the `default` service account in the same namespace. If you get the raw JSON or YAML for a pod you have created (for example, `kubectl get pods/<podname> -o yaml`), you can see the `spec.serviceAccountName` field has been automatically set. For more information see [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). By default, created pods can authenticate to Kubernetes API, which might be a potential security threat.

Reviewer: I suggest you break long lines at 100 chars (though I don't think we strictly enforce this at the moment.

> When you create a pod, if you do not specify a service account, it is automatically assigned the `default` service account in the same namespace. If you get the raw JSON or YAML for a pod you have created (for example, `kubectl get pods/<podname> -o yaml`), you can see the `spec.serviceAccountName` field has been automatically set. For more information see [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). By default, created pods can authenticate to Kubernetes API, which might be a potential security threat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a pod, if you do not specify a service account, the pod is automatically assigned the `default` service account in the same namespace. If you get the raw JSON or YAML for a pod you have created (for example using `kubectl get pods/<podname> -o yaml`), you can see the `spec.serviceAccountName` field has been automatically set. For more information see [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). By default, created pods can authenticate to the Kubernetes API, which is a potential security threat.
```

- Replace ambiguous "it" with something concrete.
- Improve phrasing before sample command.
- "Might be" and "potential" are redundant as they have the same meaning in this context.

> Not every pod needs the ability to utilize the API from within itself. If your application do not integrate with Kubernetes and not utilize it's API, it shouldn't have credentials for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not every pod needs the ability to utilize the API. If your application doesn't integrate with Kubernetes and doesn't utilize its API, the application shouldn't have access to API credentials.
```

- "Do" in third person singular should be "does".
- "it's" == "it is/it has". "its" == possessive of "it".
- Remove ambiguity in 2nd sentence.

> Not every pod needs the ability to utilize the API from within itself. For example, if there is a web application for voting that just counts votes and sends this information to an external data base, there is no need for the app to contact the API server, and therefore a mounted token is unnecessary. An attacker that finds a privileged token on a pod can compromise the cluster, so we need to reduce the attack surface as much as possible

Reviewer 2: I think describing an application here is too specific. I think we can just write that if your application do not integrate with Kubernetes and not utilize it's API, it shouldn't have credentials for it.

> To avoid manually disabling automounting of default service account, we have a webhook server that patches your service account whenever you either apply any [lokomotive component](./components.md) or create a new namespace. To see how it works follow below steps from your command line.

Reviewer 2: "your" sounds like service account created by the user, which is incorrect, as we only patch default service accounts.
```suggestion
To avoid manually disabling automounting of default service account, we have a webhook server that patches default service accounts whenever you either apply any [lokomotive component](./components.md) or create a new namespace. To see how it works follow below steps from your command line.
```

> To avoid manually disabling automounting of default service account, we have a webhook server that patches default service accounts whenever you either apply any [lokomotive component](./components.md) or create a new namespace. To see how it works follow below steps from your command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid having to manually disable automounting of the default service account, we have a webhook server that patches default service accounts whenever you either apply any [lokomotive component](./components.md) or create a new namespace. To see how it works, follow the steps below.
```

```bash
# Create a namespace.

> $ kubectl create ns foo

Reviewer: No `$` please.

# Get default service for namespace foo.
$ kubectl get sa default -o yaml -n foo
```

> After following the above steps you can see that `automountServiceAccountToken` is set to false.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After following the above steps you can see that `automountServiceAccountToken` field is set to false.
```

> After following the above steps you can see that `automountServiceAccountToken` field is set to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By following the steps above you can see that the `automountServiceAccountToken` field is set to `false`.
```

> # Get default service for foo namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Get default service for namespace foo.
```

### Current limitations

> Currently, on applying cluster `default` service account for `default` namespace is not patched. Please note, that as general convention, `default` namespace should not be used to run your workloads. However, if you want it patched too, delete the default service account after your cluster is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, on applying cluster `default` service account for `default` namespace is not patched. Please note, that as general convention, `default` namespace should not be used to run your workloads. However, if you want it patched too, you can delete the default service account after your cluster is created.
```

> Currently, on applying cluster `default` service account for `default` namespace is not patched. Please note, that as general convention, `default` namespace should not be used to run your workloads. However, if you want it patched too, you can delete the default service account after your cluster is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a cluster, the `default` service account for the `default` namespace is not patched. Note that it is generally not recommended to use the `default` namespace for running workloads. However, if you want to patch the `default` namespace, too, you can delete the `default` service account after your cluster is created.
```

- Make the sentences easier to understand.
- Add missing articles.
- Remove unnecessary "please".
- Make backticks consistent.

> Currently, on applying cluster `default` service account for `default` namespace is not patched. If you want it patched too, delete the default service account after your cluster is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, on applying cluster `default` service account for `default` namespace is not patched. Please note, that as general convention, `default` namespace should not be used to run your workloads. However, if you want it patched too, delete the default service account after your cluster is created.
```

`$ kubectl delete sa default -n default`

> ### How to enable mounting default service account for pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enabling mounting of the `default` service account for pods
```

> ### How to enable mounting default service account for pods

Reviewer: I am not sure a "how to" section belongs in a concepts document. We have a dedicated "how to" category.

> ## How to enable mounting default service account for pods

Reviewer 2: This should still be part of `Default ServiceAccount Mutating Webhook` section.

Also, before writing that, I think we should write, that it is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so you have full control over grants it has bind etc. Then, write "If you still want to enable X for default service account...".

```suggestion
### How to enable mounting default service account for pods
```

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it has bind. If you still want to enable `X` for your default service account, you can opt in of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken: true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a `automountServiceAccountToken` value

Reviewer 2: What is `X` ?

```suggestion
It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it has bind. However, if you still want to enable `X` for default service account, you can opt in of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken: true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field.
```

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it has bind. However, if you still want to enable `X` for default service account, you can opt in of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken: true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

Reviewer 2: What is `X` ?

Author: 🤦

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it has bind. However, if you still want to enable mounting for default service account, you can opt in of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken: true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

Reviewer: - AFAICT "it has bind" is grammatically wrong. I'm not sure what the intention is here but this should be rephrased.
- Please add the missing articles.
- Please backtick `default` consistently. Either we say "the default service account" everywhere or we say "the `default` service account" everywhere :-)
- You opt **into** and **out of**.
- I'd write "by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`".

> ```yaml

Reviewer: What's this? We should explain why there is a snippet here.

> # Admission-webhook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Lokomotive admission webhooks
```

> Lokomotive has an admission-webhook which runs in it's own namespace `lokomotive`. This document explains how the webhook works adding more security to your cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of the cluster control-plane Lokomotive creates additional admission webhooks, which provides extra security features to the cluster. This document describes what webhooks we install and what they do.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd link in this paragraph to explanation what admission webhooks do in K8s documentation.

> ## Additional Security

Reviewer 2: Rather than describing how admission webhook work, we should explain here our webhook(s). Not sure how we should name this webhook. Maybe something like "Default ServiceAccount Mutating Webhook" ?

> An admission controller is a piece of code that intercepts requests to the Kubernetes API server prior to persistence of the object, but after the request is authenticated and authorized. There are two special controllers: `MutatingAdmissionWebhook` and `ValidatingAdmissionWebhook`.

Reviewer 2: I think this can be removed.

Not every pod needs the ability to utilize the API from within itself. For example, if there is a web application for voting that just counts votes and sends this information to an external data base, there is no need for the app to contact the API server, and therefore a mounted token is unnecessary. An attacker that finds a privileged token on a pod can compromise the cluster, so we need to reduce the attack surface as much as possible

To avoid manually disabling automounting of default service account, we have a webhook server that patches your service account whenever you either apply any [lokomotive component](./components.md) or create a new namespace. To see how it works follow below steps from your command line.

```bash

> # create a namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create a namespace,
```

$ kubectl create ns foo

> # get default service for foo namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Get default service for foo namespace.
```

$ kubectl get sa default -o yaml -n foo
```

After following the above steps you can see that `automountServiceAccountToken` is set to false.

> ## What does not work

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Current limitations
```

> Currently, on applying cluster `default` service account for `default` namespace is not patched. If you want it patched too, delete the default service account after your cluster is created.

Reviewer 2: Then this should be explained in subsection "'default' ServiceAccount in 'default' Namespace".

# Lokomotive admission webhooks

As part of the cluster control plane Lokomotive creates additional admission webhooks, which add extra features to the cluster. This document describes the webhooks we install and what they do.

> ## Default service account mutating webhook

Reviewer: I find this section hard to follow due to the ordering of information in it. I would use the following order:

- Pods are assigned an SA by default.
- This SA grants access to the API server, which is risky.
- Your application likely doesn't need access to the API server so we can eliminate the risk.
- The webhook eliminates the risk by disabling automounting of the SA.
- Here is how you check which SA is attached to a pod.
- For more info visit the k8s docs.

When you create a pod, if you do not specify a service account, the pod is automatically assigned the `default` service account in the same namespace. If you get the raw JSON or YAML for a pod you have created (for example using `kubectl get pods/<podname> -o yaml`), you can see the `spec.serviceAccountName` field has been automatically set.

>  For more information see [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). By default, created pods can authenticate to the Kubernetes API, which is a potential security threat. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 For more information see the [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). By default, created pods can authenticate to the Kubernetes API, which is a potential security threat. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Double empty line.

Not every pod needs the ability to utilize the API. If your application doesn't integrate with Kubernetes and doesn't utilize its API, the application shouldn't have access to API credentials.

To avoid having to manually disable automounting of the `default` service account, we have a webhook server that patches `default` service accounts whenever you either apply any [lokomotive component](./components.md) or create a new namespace. To see how it works, follow the steps below.

```bash
# Create a namespace.
kubectl create ns foo

> # Get default service for namespace foo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get default service account for namespace foo.
```

kubectl get sa default -o yaml -n foo
```

By following the steps above you can see that the `automountServiceAccountToken` field is set to `false`.

### Current limitations

When creating a cluster, the `default` service account for the `default` namespace is not patched. Note that it is generally not recommended to use the `default` namespace for running workloads. However, if you want to patch the `default` namespace, too, you can delete the `default` service account after your cluster is created.

> `$ kubectl delete sa default -n default`

Reviewer: - This block uses single backticks whereas the previous ones use triple backtick.
- No dollars please.

> ### Enabling mounting of the `default` service account for pods

Reviewer: We backtick "default" here but we don't in a previous heading.

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it offers. However, if you still want to enable mounting for the `default` service account, you can opt into and out of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field. Look at the below snippet for more information.

Reviewer: What does "grants it offers" mean? Can we rephrase/clarify?

Author: Updated

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it offers. However, if you still want to enable mounting for the `default` service account, you can opt into and out of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field. Look at the below snippet for more information.

Reviewer: >However, if you still want to enable mounting for the `default` service account

"Mounting for an account" sounds wrong to me. We probably want "mounting *of*" here.

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it offers. However, if you still want to enable mounting for the `default` service account, you can opt into and out of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field. Look at the below snippet for more information.

Reviewer: >you can opt into and out of automounting API credentials

We only opt in here, not out, right?. I wrote "into and out of" to demonstrate which prepositions to use with "opt in/out" :-) I didn't intend to change the technical meaning.

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, so that you have full control over grants it offers. However, if you still want to enable mounting for the `default` service account, you can opt into and out of automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field. Look at the below snippet for more information.

Reviewer: >The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

Missing article before "`automountServiceAccountToken` field".

>Look at the below snippet for more information.

- What information shall I look for in the snippet as a user? I find this confusing.
- I'd say "the snippet below". Using "below" as an adjective is valid AFAIK but is quite uncommon in docs AFAICT.

Author: > What information shall I look for in the snippet as a user? I find this confusing.

It tells user about specifying `automountServiceAccountToken` field as explained in above paragraph.

To avoid having to manually disable automounting of the `default` service account, we have a webhook server that patches `default` service accounts whenever you either apply any [lokomotive component](./components.md) or create a new namespace. To see how it works, follow the steps below.

```bash
# Create a namespace.
kubectl create ns foo

# Get default service account for namespace foo.
kubectl get sa default -o yaml -n foo
```

By following the steps above you can see that the `automountServiceAccountToken` field is set to `false`.

 For more information see the [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).

### Current limitations

When creating a cluster, the `default` service account for the `default` namespace is not patched. Note that it is generally not recommended to use the `default` namespace for running workloads. However, if you want to patch the `default` namespace, too, you can delete the `default` service account after your cluster is created.

```bash
kubectl delete sa default -n default
```

### Enabling mounting of the `default` service account for pods

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, giving it the rights it needs. However, if you still want to enable mounting of the `default` service account, you can opt into automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for the `automountServiceAccountToken` field. Look at the snippet below for more information on setting of `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

Reviewer: >on setting of `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

There is a missing article here.

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, giving it the rights it needs. However, if you still want to enable mounting of the `default` service account, you can opt into automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for the `automountServiceAccountToken` field. Look at the snippet below for more information on setting of `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

Reviewer: >Look at the snippet below for more information on setting of `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

Sorry, I still have a problem with this... We're telling the user to look at a YAML snippet to "get more information", but as a user it's not clear to me what information about setting the `automountServiceAccountToken` field I should get from this snippet. As far as I can tell, it's a YAML document of a pod, which makes it unlikely that a user would copy-paste it because users normally don't create pods directly but rather use higher-level abstractions like deployments or daemonsets.

Could you help me understand why this YAML snippet is necessary?

Author: > users normally don't create pods directly but rather use higher-level abstractions like deployments or daemonsets.

I agree and the snippet can be removed, as we are already telling them how to set `automountServiceAccountToken` field

> It is recommended to create a dedicated service account for your application, giving it the rights it needs. However, if you still want to enable mounting of the `default` service account, you can opt into automounting API credentials for a particular pod by setting `automountServiceAccountToken` to `true`. The pod spec takes precedence over the service account if both specify a value for the `automountServiceAccountToken` field. Look at the snippet below for more information on setting of `automountServiceAccountToken` field.

Reviewer: >giving it the rights it needs

I understand the meaning now. I'd use the word "permissions" instead of "rights" because that's how permissions are named in k8s and it makes it clear what we are referring to.
